plone/app/testing/api_signature.rst, before:

.. -*-doctest-*-

=====================
plone.app.testing.api
=====================

This tests and documents in detail, the signatures common to both
layer and TestCase classes.  Detailed examples of calling the methods
are given in specific sections below.

Start with an instance of one of the classes.  This test is run
against both layers and test cases, so the instance is passed in as a
global, but it doesn't matter which it is for using the signatures.

    >>> help(self)
    Help on...

Useful set up and tear down method hooks are available and may be
overriden in subclasses.  All of the rest of the utility methods and
attributes should only be used inside these methods when overriden.

    >>> help(self.afterSetUp)
    Help...
    >>> help(self.beforeTearDown)
    Help...
        Called before tearDown() is executed.
        May be overridden by subclasses to perform additional test clean up.

A method for initializing add-ons, including their ZCML, are provided.
If using ``addProfile`` or ``addProduct`` for a given add-on, it is
often necessary to call the corresponding method here first to that is
it properly initialized before installing into the portal.

    >>> help(self.installProduct)
    Help...
        Initialize the Zope 2 product with the given name.
        Also loads its ZCML first.

Another method for loading an arbitrary ZCML file is also provided.

    >>> help(self.loadZCML)
    Help...
        Load a ZCML file, configure.zcml by default.

Methods for changing security and the logged in user are provided.

    >>> help(self.setRoles)
    Help...
        Set the given user's roles to a tuple of roles.
    >>> help(self.setGroups)
    Help...
        Set the given user's groups to a tuple of groups.
    >>> help(self.login)
    Help...
        Log in to the portal as the given user.
    >>> help(self.loginAsPortalOwner)
    Help...
        Log in to the portal as the user who created it.
    >>> help(self.logout)
    Help...
        Log out, i.e. become anonymous.

The ``app``, ``portal`` and ``folder`` attributes are also available.

    >>> self.app
    <Application at >
    >>> self.portal
    <PloneSite at /plone>
    >>> self.folder
    <ATFolder at /plone/Members/test_user_1_>

Methods for installing add-ons into the portal are also still
available.

    >>> help(self.addProfile)
    Help...
        Imports an extension profile into the site.
    >>> help(self.addProduct)
    Help...
        Quickinstalls a product into the site.

Commit message:

Add beforeSetUp and afterTearDown hooks after all, for things that need a site not to be there, such as loading ZCML

plone/app/testing/api_signature.rst, after:

.. -*-doctest-*-

=====================
plone.app.testing.api
=====================

This tests and documents in detail, the signatures common to both
layer and TestCase classes.  Detailed examples of calling the methods
are given in specific sections below.

Start with an instance of one of the classes.  This test is run
against both layers and test cases, so the instance is passed in as a
global, but it doesn't matter which it is for using the signatures.

    >>> help(self)
    Help on...

Useful set up and tear down method hooks are available and may be
overriden in subclasses.  All of the rest of the utility methods and
attributes should only be used inside these methods when overriden.

    >>> help(self.beforeSetUp)
    Help...
        Called before the Plone site is created and configured.
        May be overridden by subclasses to perform additional test set
        up before a portal is created, such as using self.loadZCML().
    >>> help(self.afterSetUp)
    Help...
    >>> help(self.beforeTearDown)
    Help...
        Called before the Plone site is removed and cleaned up.
        May be overridden by subclasses to perform additional test
        clean up that needs access to the Plone site.
    >>> help(self.afterTearDown)
    Help...
        Called after the Plone site has been removed and cleaned up.
        May be overridden by subclasses to perform additional test
        clean up, such as cleaning up any global state change not
        already isolated by plone.testing.

A method for initializing add-ons, including their ZCML, are provided.
If using ``addProfile`` or ``addProduct`` for a given add-on, it is
often necessary to call the corresponding method here first to that is
it properly initialized before installing into the portal.

    >>> help(self.installProduct)
    Help...
        Initialize the Zope 2 product with the given name.
        Also loads its ZCML first.

Another method for loading an arbitrary ZCML file is also provided.

    >>> help(self.loadZCML)
    Help...
        Load a ZCML file, configure.zcml by default.

Methods for changing security and the logged in user are provided.

    >>> help(self.setRoles)
    Help...
        Set the given user's roles to a tuple of roles.
    >>> help(self.setGroups)
    Help...
        Set the given user's groups to a tuple of groups.
    >>> help(self.login)
    Help...
        Log in to the portal as the given user.
    >>> help(self.loginAsPortalOwner)
    Help...
        Log in to the portal as the user who created it.
    >>> help(self.logout)
    Help...
        Log out, i.e. become anonymous.

The ``app``, ``portal`` and ``folder`` attributes are also available.

    >>> self.app
    <Application at >
    >>> self.portal
    <PloneSite at /plone>
    >>> self.folder
    <ATFolder at /plone/Members/test_user_1_>

Methods for installing add-ons into the portal are also still
available.

    >>> help(self.addProfile)
    Help...
        Imports an extension profile into the site.
    >>> help(self.addProduct)
    Help...
        Quickinstalls a product into the site.
